[docs] Add documentation about autolinking (#19841)
expo/expo: docs/pages/modules/autolinking.mdx

installing a library will require configuring even up to three different package managers!

Expo Autolinking is a mechanism that automates this process and narrows down the library installation process to the minimum — usually just installing the package from `npm` and re-running `pod install`.
The core implementation can be found in the [`expo-modules-autolinking`](https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/packages/expo-modules-autolinking) package and is divided into three parts:
- common JavaScript CLI tool with the module resolution algorithm
- code that integrates with the Gradle build system for Android platform
- Ruby script that integrates with CocoaPods for iOS platform

## CLI commands

<APIBox>

### `search`

Searching is the first phase of resolving the Expo modules installed in the project. Its implementation is common for all platforms. It intends to find which modules should be taken as Expo modules and figure out which version is of the highest precedence (in case of duplicates).

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo-modules-autolinking search']} />

The above command returns an object in JSON format with modules that have been found as dependencies:

> ```json

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```json expo-module.config.json
```

Let's add file name to the code block.

        }
      ],
      "swiftModuleNames": [ "ExpoRandom" ],
      "modules": [ "RandomModule" ],
      "appDelegateSubscribers": [],
      "reactDelegateHandlers": [],
      "debugOnly": false
    },
    // more modules...
  ]
}
```

</APIBox>
<APIBox>

### `verify`

Verifies the search results by checking whether there are no multiple revisions (duplicates) of the same package, otherwise an appropriate warning is shown.

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo-modules-autolinking verify']} />

</APIBox>

## Configuration

The behavior of the module resolution can be customized using some configuration options. These options can be defined in three different places, from the lowest to the highest precedence:
- `expo.autolinking` config object in application's **package.json**
- per platform overrides with `expo.autolinking.ios` and `expo.autolinking.android` objects
- options provided to the CLI command, the `use_expo_modules!` method in the **Podfile** or `useExpoModules` function in the **settings.gradle**

<APIBox>

### `searchPaths`

A list of paths relative to the app's root directory where the autolinking script should search for Expo modules.

> It defaults to a list of all **node_modules** folders found when traversing up through your monorepo starting from the app's root directory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It defaults to a list of all **node_modules** folders found when traversing up through a monorepo, starting from the app's root directory.
```

Useful when your project has a custom structure or you want to link local packages from folders different than **node_modules**.

```json package.json
{
  "expo": {
    "autolinking": {
      "searchPaths": ["../../packages"]
    }
  }
}
```

When used with the CLI, you can pass the search paths as command arguments like this:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo-modules-autolinking search ../../packages']} />

</APIBox>
<APIBox>

### `exclude`

A list of package names to exclude from autolinking. These packages will not be autolinked even if they are found in the search paths.
For example, you may want not to link some packages that you don't use on the specific platform to reduce the binary size.
The following config in **package.json** will exclude `expo-random` from autolinking on Android:

```json package.json
{
  "expo": {
    "autolinking": {
      "android": {
        "exclude": ["expo-random"]
      }
    }
  }
}
```

</APIBox>
<APIBox platforms={['ios']}>

### `flags`

> CocoaPods flags to pass to each autolinked pod. `inhibit_warnings` is probably the only one you may want to use to inhibit Xcode warnings produced when compiling the autolinked modules.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
CocoaPods flags to pass to each autolinked pod. `inhibit_warnings` is likely the only flag most developers want to use, to inhibit Xcode warnings produced when compiling the autolinked modules.
```

You can refer to the [CocoaPods Podfile documentation](https://guides.cocoapods.org/syntax/podfile.html#pod) for available flags.

<CodeBlocksTable tabs={['Podfile', 'package.json']}>

```ruby
use_expo_modules!({
  flags: {
    :inhibit_warnings => false
  }
})
```

```json
{
  "expo": {
    "autolinking": {
      "ios": {
        "flags": {
          "inhibit_warnings": true
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

</CodeBlocksTable>

</APIBox>

> ## FAQ

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Common questions
```

### How to set up the autolinking in my app?

> All projects created with the `npx create-expo-app` command are already configured to use Expo Autolinking. If your project was created using different tools,
> please refer to [Installing Expo modules](/bare/installing-expo-modules) to make sure your project includes all necessary changes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All projects created with the `npx create-expo-app` command are already configured to use Expo Autolinking. If your project was created using different tools, please refer to [Installing Expo modules](/bare/installing-expo-modules) to make sure your project includes all necessary changes.
```

### What do I need to have in my module to make it autolinkable?

> The module resolution algorithm searches only for packages that contain the [Expo module config](./module-config.mdx) file (**expo-module.config.json**) at the root directory, next to the **package.json** file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The module resolution algorithm searches only for packages that contain the [Expo module config](./module-config.mdx) file (**expo-module.config.json**) at the root directory, next to the **package.json** file.
```

is `./module-config.mdx` the correct way to link to this @Simek?

Reviewer 3: We currently have two ways of linking pages internally. I'd rather prefer it to be `/module-config.mdx` because the path resembles the actual URL. Also, using relative paths sometimes lead to "../../".

It's also necessary to include supported platforms in the `platforms` array — if the platform for which the autolinking algorithm is run is not present in this array, it's just skipped in the search results.

### How is it different from React Native autolinking?

> Expo Autolinking comes in with built-in support for monorepos, Yarn workspaces and transitive dependencies.
> It's also significantly faster, even though the module resolution algorithm is more complex in order to be more reliable and match the Node's module resolution.
> Expo module resolution is also capable of detecting the duplicates which is a common issue in monorepos. Last but not least, it integrates well with all the features offered by Expo Modules APIs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Expo Autolinking comes in with built-in support for monorepos, Yarn workspaces and transitive dependencies.
- It's also significantly faster, even though the module resolution algorithm is more complex in order to be more reliable and match the Node's module resolution.
- Expo module resolution is also capable of detecting the duplicates which is a common issue in monorepos.
- Last but not least, it integrates well with all the features offered by Expo Modules APIs.
```

}
```

</APIBox>
<APIBox>

### `resolve`

Resolving is the second phase that is based on the results from the `search` command. It resolves each search result to an object with more (platform-specific) details,
such as the path to the podspec or **build.gradle** files and module classes to link.

<Terminal cmd={['npx expo-modules-autolinking resolve --platform <ios|android>']} />

For example, with `--platform ios` option it returns an object in JSON format with an array of modules and resolved details for iOS platform:

```json
{
  "modules": [
    {
      "packageName": "expo-random",
      "packageVersion": "13.0.0",
      "pods": [
        {
          "podName": "ExpoRandom",
          "podspecDir": "/absolute/path/to/node_modules/expo-random/ios"
        }
      ],
      "swiftModuleNames": [ "ExpoRandom" ],
      "modules": [ "RandomModule" ],
      "appDelegateSubscribers": [],
      "reactDelegateHandlers": [],
      "debugOnly": false
    },
    // more modules...
  ]
}
```

</APIBox>
<APIBox>

### `verify`

Verifies the search results by checking whether there are no multiple revisions (duplicates) of the same package, otherwise an appropriate warning is shown.

> <Terminal cmd={['npx expo-modules-autolinking verify']} />

Author: Maybe we can add `$` to all commands, directly in the Terminal component?

> <Terminal cmd={['npx expo-modules-autolinking verify']} />

Reviewer 3: Yeah, that sounds good. I'm not sure, why it isn't and will have to check.

> <Terminal cmd={['npx expo-modules-autolinking verify']} />

Reviewer: This is a formatting sign for a line, and there are cases where we need to add the command output or other non-formatted value, and in cases like this we use lines without any formatting char at the beginning. 

Maybe this can be flipped around or the default can change, but this will require correcting manually at least a several pages.

> <Terminal cmd={['npx expo-modules-autolinking verify']} />

Reviewer 3: Thanks for your input here @Simek. Will create a task to change it and test the pages manually.
